---
title: Highlights from Hack.lu 2024 (Day 3)
tags: conference
---

Day 3 of Hack.lu featured a mix of talks exploring both physical and digital
security challenges. From discussions on outdated physical security measures to
vulnerabilities in cutting-edge mobile app frameworks and critical
infrastructure systems, the day offered valuable insights for cybersecurity
professionals. The sessions provided practical demonstrations and real-world
examples of how attackers exploit weaknesses in both physical and virtual
environments, while also highlighting tools and techniques for enhancing
detection and prevention.

## Morning Sessions

**Back to the Failure - Did Your Physical Security Really Evolve in the Last 40
Years?** Presented by Simon Geusebroek from Synacktiv, this talk revisited the
evolution (or lack thereof) of physical security measures over the past four
decades. Geusebroek demonstrated how many physical security systems, such as
locks and access controls, remain vulnerable to basic bypass techniques. The
session highlighted how outdated security practices and reliance on
certifications give a false sense of security, allowing attackers to easily
breach supposedly "secure" facilities.

**Blowing up Gas Stations for Fun and Profit** Pedro Umbelino exposed
vulnerabilities in Automated Tank Gauging (ATG) systems, which monitor fuel
levels in critical infrastructures like gas stations and military bases.
Umbelino revealed several zero-day vulnerabilities that could allow attackers
to remotely manipulate fuel storage systems, potentially causing environmental
and economic damage. Despite previous warnings, many ATG systems remain
unprotected and accessible online, leaving critical infrastructure at risk.

**Reversing Flutter with Blutter and Radare2** This technical workshop delved
into the complexities of reverse engineering Flutter applications. Axelle
Apvrille guided attendees through the complexities of reverse engineering
Flutter applications. Flutter, a popular cross-platform mobile development
framework, poses unique challenges for reverse engineers due to its custom
binary format. Apvrille introduced tools like Blutter and Radare2 to analyze
and manipulate Flutter binaries, offering practical techniques to uncover
vulnerabilities and modify app behavior.
    
## Afternoon Sessions

**Scanning with the Artemis Security Scanner** Presented by Krzysztof Zając,
this session focused on Artemis, an open-source tool for automating
vulnerability scanning across domains. Zając walked through how CSIRTs, network
administrators, and hosting providers can set up Artemis to scan large networks
and automatically report findings. The hands-on session covered the tool’s
installation, configuration, and reporting capabilities, providing a scalable
solution for identifying vulnerabilities across thousands of domains.
    
**iOS Compromise Detection Using Open Source Tools** David Durvaux and
Christophe Vandeplas led this workshop on detecting compromises on iOS devices
using sysdiagnose and other open-source tools. They demonstrated how
sysdiagnose can collect detailed diagnostic data from iPhones and iPads, and
how security teams can use these tools to uncover potential breaches, including
spyware and misconfigurations. Participants learned how to parse sysdiagnose
files and use the data to build timelines, enabling more efficient and thorough
investigations of iOS device
    
